that one should work well because it
does everything won't be one go okay all
right should work if I yes cool hi
everyone this is the every two weeks
meeting of the IPL D team it's July the
22nd of 2019 and yeah this meeting is
about just checking about what we did
and also things said we'd like to
discuss within the team and I guess I
just start as I don't have that much to
say because I wasn't occasions for
tweaks I had one week of catching up
with things and I clearly spend my time
on wrapping up BJ s IPL D deck PB work
because we want to make things simpler
and kind of remissed the plan to finally
getting all those changes in and then I
hopefully won't need to touch the say
yes I killed the things that we
currently have that much in the future
so that's the plan to basically wrap it
up so I'm free to work on the stuff that
we did that I should work on or like it
was planned I work on which is a reverse
type ELT and stuff like this so yeah
cool um next on my list is Eric I have
had tons of exciting time to do cogent
and typed no stuff so that's been fun
there's a whole bunch of stuff there
that had been kind of like getting no
time and attention for a while so in the
last couple of weeks I finally got to
start doing serious prototypes of code
generation and just immediately found
all sorts of stuff from the first draft
noting your faces in the NGO libraries
that were just like wrong like the first
draft place will lose that and had to
eat flesh behind them so they were just
like guessing loudly so lots of that has
been thrown out and lots of things that
actually are the right shape are
starting to come deformed so there's now
a distinction between like type kinds
versus the data model kinds so like
struct is a kind of map schema system
but it's not in the raw data model of
course and so now I have a type 2 node
interface coming along and it's got the
ability to do some inspection on the
type that describes it and it still acts
like a regular note in every other way
the same your place is the data model
stuff does and then they have a second
kind of note they can be treated as
which does the representation stuff so
like this is how the whole system will
work out from the libraries perspective
when you have like a struct type with a
tuple representation will actually have
two nodes that refer to the same data
one of them black like I'm out of the
list the amount of work that's ahead in
Cochin is absolutely massive and I'm
trying to sort of skitter around and do
the minimum things to figure out where
all the hard problems are supposed to be
so at the moment I'm working on structs
because those are by far one of the most
complicated things I did some of the
simple scalar stuff like a type string
and that was just easy so I'm skipping
over the rest of those until later and
I'm kind of scared about some of the
complexity around unions in the future
but gonna do those after I'd finished
structs and yeah we'll see how that goes
selectors are also rolling along really
really fast
by the way Anna isn't here to tell us
about how cool her work is but she is I
they I don't want to say they're dumb in
case they're not done in her opinion but
they look like they're pretty close to
done she said they were doing all right
agree then like holy crap it's really
cool yeah she's got a PR doing
integration with the graph sync stuff or
anything like just cool yep
that's what's new for me hmm so next one
on my list is rod right so I've been
primarily playing with a practical
implementation of some of our work so
NPM has a data set one of the reasons
I'm interested in NPM is I actually have
a use case for it I have a website node
I drop see oh no no no Tyco IP years ago
I made this service for putting NPM
badges onto your github readme became
really popular and you know a large
portion of NPM packages github pages
you'll see these little badges on them
and it sort of rotted on the vine for a
few years and I recently picked it up
and started cleaning it up again but it
turns out that NPMs
api has has become more restrictive
their commercial concerns have stopped
them and making easy access to certain
bits of data and so you need to do you
know interesting stuff you need a local
copy of it to be able to have your own
database to do queries so my thought a
while back was well one and I do
something with IPL day and actually use
IPL T as a local NPM database and then
use that as a way to extend some of
these ideas it's not the most efficient
way to do it like the most efficient way
would just be to feed it into a classic
database query that but this is an
interesting way of doing it and anyway
so I've been messing around with that
how to store this data and query it it's
going it's going well and it's making me
explore a lot of it
interesting areas that I think are
really useful for me to have my head
around so far I'm I'm avoiding the DHT I
don't do anything with live p2p at the
moment it's because just could just
blocks and you know fetching block
storing blocks the really simple
operations so the the idea is to do
something that just uses HTTP to serve
blocks as a as a filling for maybe
something more sophisticated later on
maybe it'll may be that it could go on
and live p2p and be something that's
useful the there's this challenge as I
keep on thinking about in this domain
one of them is how do you update I know
the package managers folks have to deal
with this stuff and I saw there was a
discussion in there about IP and IP n s
I didn't was starting to sync with them
about their needs on IP NS and so
hopefully I PMS becomes a a useful thing
one day but for now it's like how do you
so you've got a you've got a route block
for through this complex array of data
how do you first of all trigger an
update and then how do you perform an
update on that so been thinking a lot
about the idea of mutable links you know
these these these blocks that are you
know have some way has some mechanism of
saying there's an X there's some sort of
expiry where if you beyond this time
then maybe you should explore if you can
getting a new version of me and here's a
signed is a way of verifying that the
replacement of me that you fetched from
this place is actually valid it's just
thinking about that that sort of
problems and then also on the client
side so when you're querying this thing
and you're fetching blocks and you're
building your own local version of what
you need of it how are you storing it
I've been looking at the I think it's
the block service API that everyone's
using for ipfs looking at performance
concerns there and see if there's any
any interesting optimizations for this
particular use case but
you know it's just it's just an
interesting problem set because it's
there's a whole bundle of concerns that
it's forcing me to think about it I
think it's helping me to get into
similar headspace to everyone else that
has been working on this stuff for
longer than I so that's pretty much
what's been absorbing my time cool
things for the update
Stephen do you have anything did you do
any Abele work okay or what to share
something no okay it's fine um I've just
posted two new gen items that came to my
mind because like first of all there was
a lot of stuff happening while I was
locations so kind of the whole person
thing kind of blew up or like become big
and to attempt to catch up and when I
was finally caught up Michael was on
holidays so we could really think about
that much about this part that much um
and yeah I just want to discuss with the
team because yeah I've also talked with
some of you already that I have the
impression that Mike was really excited
about this wasn't stuff um was cool I'm
also kind of excited but I think or
differently so I always sleep less like
researchy thing and not really so it
should really block anything because I
think in some document there and notes
about what the relation between was them
and they Phoenix FSB to work and I don't
think there is really any relation like
of course in the future there might be
relation but clearly it's not something
that at least I plan for okay and then I
just give some comments like yes like we
started going down to wasn't rabbit-hole
because like us all these things and you
know as waited this is going to be
really complicated we need something now
so Deb nicos to and then we're gonna
eunuch service 3 eventually and eunuchs
best 3 will be like basically we'll be
able to interpret eunuchs mess to using
eunuchs best 3 these disbeliever do this
for our clinic ok yeah yeah yes yep Reid
and I also think it so basically what I
wanna say is I really like the wasn't
stuff shouldn't block any other work
we're doing I think that's so any other
opinions on this like yeah I know just
from what I understand the way Michael
thinks about it he he I think he's
trying to use it as a a tool to get to
an ideal future so keeping in mind that
the impractical impractical observe
wasn't now how can we target a future
where those in practicalities might be
able to come and that this thing is
insurgent so that's why you know
whenever I talk to Michael about this
stuff it's like you know he's taking
some of some of the decisions that might
otherwise look strange I've got this was
a future in mind and so that's always
you know some stuff around composites
the discussion about terminology oh
that's what stuff seems to be very
heavily informed by this was a future
for him and you know I'm I'm not
invested either way to be honest I you
know I can see this a lot of barriers
right now maybe one day we'll prep you
practical but ok I think it's inevitable
because like every time we look at this
problem it always leads back to shipping
code to people right but then I always
treasure to this I well it's like a lot
of copy of poems you just saw first we
deal with like interoperability upgrade
ability to people writing or writing
different code and like actually I mean
Allah sees work together it's yeah it's
versatile security concerns so that's
why a unity was kept Lee block on it but
right given that Rossum was I could be
shipping arbitrary code I think we
should be able to basically do whatever
we want now and then use like the walls
himself to interpret
have now effectively that make sense you
know we're like like we can implement
the functions later I didn't we now yeah
it's and so I the way I've been going
with my code and even the algorithms
I've been running for the specs is
trying to trying to boil them down into
single operations so instead of saying
this thing is a a set of you know it's a
data structure with these algorithms
associated with it now here's a data
structure and here's an operation and
this is how you perform that operation
and then even Michael's code it's it's
like you want to traverse okay we want
to get from here to here and you wanna
you wanna do a get with a key that's an
operation that should be self-contained
and there should be the interfaces it's
the kind of thing that wasn't might have
and it's not necessarily constrained by
that but its interest it's an
interesting constraint to force you know
really clean algorithms where you're
traversing block by block and you know
where you're gonna get and you've got
these various things where you might
need to even need to store continuation
information and those those little
operations are turning into the kind of
things that would convert really well
into wasn't we just what I can take
Geely you wouldn't have to care about
what ground resonators you know you
would just deal with your billing graph
and do it on which can be queried for
you but yes if you have to like you have
to make sure your algorithms are
recursive and compostable all I kinda
stuff and side-effect free you know yes
I think the like would put truly big
discussion is about exactly this being
is side-effect free and so basically if
your side-effect free it's easy to do it
wasn't or easier to do it wasn't and so
I think yeah so there's benefits to
think about in those terms but actually
what I think what in terms we were
thinking is more like functional
programming basically doing it it for my
Erlang background is like we're just
doing freshman programming and if
Michael has though wasn't everything in
mind that's that's fine for me but yeah
and that's the thing it makes sense to
thing those forms but I did shouldn't
block anything so basic
can you say that with me you at least we
are in agreement that there wasn't work
shouldn't block any billing CSV to work
all right cool and this was basically
Vietnam I want to talk about what there
wasn't stuff and the other one is I
think Eric brought it up if we should
think about making this a weekly meeting
because there's plenty of stuff now
going on and it might make sense to
catch up more frequently but I'm like I
don't never spoken about it so on it's
open for discussion
yes please
I feel like I've gotten there's been
enough stuff happening in the last
couple of weeks that trying to boil it
down into a short summary it's like wow
how many things can I delete from the
list so I don't like more meetings but I
feel like weekly so I'm totally fine
with having it weekly
what do you have any get from it from my
keeping up to date point of view yes but
we're getting a half-bad perspective
it's not such a hot idea but I think
we're heading into into summer here and
daylight saving and that'll make it more
stomach able so it's fine it's probably
a good idea yeah yeah I mean butyl also
always go back to to have into every
tool like that's not like the system so
should we
so should we start estimate I have you
considered changing the time or insert a
change name yeah rotate in times a
little bit if he does to do with
Australia like they have one meeting the
morning one the afternoon we could do
it's just that then it becomes my
late-night and these guys early morning
it's it's just it sucks either way I I
think I think these guys are you guys
are okay with the evening night hours on
you so you know I know to me you know
I've got kicking up in the morning for
kids anyway so I my my night out a bit
capabilities are more limited than they
used to be so I make hay with this video
okay cool as so should be so it should
be smith you say we start and next week
with the first weekly meeting basically
okay um I I can make sure that I updated
all the like repository saying we oh wow
I I bought updated for now we first do
the weekly meetings and I laugh at them
whatever so I will update the
repositories to see weekly
after they resumed cool am is there
anything else anyone wants to talk about
we've got a bunch of things in limbo for
requests particularly stuck in this BEC
repo and discussions it's probably best
not to try and resolve them without
Michael but we do have a lot of balls in
the air that would be worth sorting out
soon yeah mm is this so are you so is
there anything in particular that they
still needs proper review or just like
generally we just need to Ikea finally I
don't think so I think I think there's
it's just this shared mental state that
we have we continually have trouble with
and we have these discussions about well
things like the terminology in advance
they have versus composites that's
that's a shared mental state problem
where we really need to get on the same
page there's there's a couple of them
still in play at the moment but I don't
know if it would be worth us trying to
put in the hard yards without Michael
because then it's we're all in shared
space and he's not then possibly even
worse than it's all having something
slightly different so I think it's just
something if we do weekly meetings that
might actually help with that problem on
that train of thought wondering if it
might be a good time to think about like
checking in with some very central read
knees and like mission statements of
stuff I don't know if that will maybe we
get I don't know if that'll be easier
than having concrete stuff or not but
there's some conversations we've had
recent war I feel like we could
short-circuit to the endgame much much
faster if we had some clear statements
about what I POV is not and what things
we don't want to be in scope like just
earlier in this very meeting I thought
it was really really good to phrase the
question of
do we think that wasm is a blocking
requirement for eunuchs FSB - and then
it was very clearly everyone agrees like
so so that got things on track really
quickly in that example and I feel like
maybe we could do some more mission
statement renovations to do that more
broadly but just as all and yes I think
that that's a good idea because like
when we like this was done I'm mostly by
Michael and I I agree
basically agreed on what he was doing
but it was like a year ago nor nine
months ago I think there was like the
bank then the mission was pretty clear
and was good to have it because we
finally had an agreement on the scope
and things but now the scope is like
totally different and so I guess it
would make sense to yet do it again to
see like yeah what the current scope is
because it also seems that currently we
don't really have an agreement on what
the scope is or like yeah or like every
one of us has a different idea of what
the scope is so yeah I think the current
stuff like the specs readme is pretty
close I don't know maybe we just need to
even reread it and remind ourselves that
it's there it feels like a lot of the
stuff we've poked around recently have
gotten terribly close to opening some
sort of a Pandora's box and right enough
said I rest my case
yeah yep so I think that's probably been
an action item for when my clothes bag I
guess because yeah again it doesn't make
sense if we find someone who drew it on
the scope and then has microphone
occasions it's yeah we'll do things
yeah the Aussie Penzias oh I think
mental state is our biggest problem as
moment talking about the same thing
understand knowing where each other's
boundaries are in terms of what we are
what we see this thing being
I think I think we got real problems
there so that's the thing I'd like to
see us work more yeah I did think that
whole issue I forget to number but that
you guys put a lot of work into
communicating all this it's really
really good I legitimately did not
realize before some of that issue was
typed out I you're talking about 144
probably yeah I did not realize that
some of those things were in the scope
or like part of the consideration at all
and so I'm glad that we're having that
conversation more clearly yeah that's a
big improvement as long as we're talking
about the gold specs renovations
something else that has been kind of in
the back burner of my mind and and I
hope Michael will forgive me for
speaking for him too but we encountered
at ipfs camp layer cake model that thing
has been through lots of iterations and
it feels a little bit better every time
we iterate on it but the layer cake
thing let's go kind of seems to not be
gelling very fast for new people so we
might want to give another round of
rethinks to that at this point it seems
like we have the data model in the
middle and codecs are going in and out
of that and then we've got a bunch of
other things that are going in and out
of it really we have drafted did I think
we've been stuck on three layers for
whatever reason for longer than we've
even had schemas which is kind of funny
so now we've got like schema layers
roughly layer three and that's been kind
of ill-fitting since the beginning and
we know it we just didn't come up with
any better suggestion right so we
haven't been able to figure out where
exactly advanced a collapse in there we
kind of hooked a mogila schema layer but
it never quite fit and just ignored it
right and it hasn't been a super clear
way
selectors stuff is gone it doesn't fit
clearly onto any of those three layers
right it fits on top of either types or
data model or maybe something like yeah
the the three strict layers doesn't work
super good I don't know what other
models we can replace it if that are
going to be simple either but it was
really really tricky to talk about
selectors in the layer model on some of
that stuff during camp when people do
already stood in it though yeah as I
said to you yesterday
I mostly don't care what the hierarchy
is as long as there's some kind of
hierarchy to this stuff because there's
so many when you approach this from the
outside there's so many little rabbit
holes to go down we need to be able to
organize this in a way that somebody new
coming up to it can see where the rabbit
holes are and their importance in the
stack so if they want to look at one
thing then it's not it's not unobvious
of what the bundle of concerns around
that thing are rather than I have to
understand all of this thing in order to
know this thing that I care about and so
that's why I'm gonna object to a flat
model for any of this documentation or
presenting any of this stuff but I'm not
invested either way in whether we do it
by layer or some other mechanism I just
don't want to see selectors of the top
level graphs in here the top level
discussions about cardinality at the top
level all these things okay yeah yeah
okay let's let's finish up I gotta get
you good chat all right